SRS Document

Title:
On Demand Cab Booking Portal
Team:
Customers
Drivers
Administrators
Quality Assurance Team
Support team
System Analysts

Objective (Purpose):
The Online Cab Booking Website is intended to provide a complete solution for customers to book
rides using a web application, and for drivers to manage their rides, routes, and payment through a
single gateway using the internet. The website aims to provide a safe and reliable platform for both
customers and drivers to meet their transportation needs.

Definitions:

Cab: A vehicle used for transportation of passengers. The website offers wide range of vehicles
options such as micro, mini, hatchback, sedan, SUV.
Ride: A journey from one location to another using a cab.
Customer: A person who books a ride through the website.
Driver: A person who provides transportation services through the website.
Administrator: A person who manages and organize the system
Payment Gateway: Payment gateway is a network through which the customer will transfer the
fund.
Rating System: A system that allows customers to rate their driver&#39;s performance, behaviour.
GPS: Global Positioning System.

Scope:
The Online Cab Booking Website will allow customers to book a ride from one location to another
using the website. The website will also allow drivers to manage their rides, routes, and payment
through their driver&#39;s account.
Administrators will be able to manage the system, view reports, and feedback from the customers,
and handle any issues that arise with the system.

Functional Requirements:

For Customers:
 Customers will be able to create an account on the website, with their name, email address,
and phone number &amp; they can also modify their profile details at any time.
 Customers will be able to book a ride by specifying the pickup and drop locations, the ride
date and time, and the type of vehicle they want.
 Customers will able to see the estimated fare and provide an estimated time of arrival for
the cab.
 Customers will be able to select a payment option, such as cash, credit card, debit card, UPI,
pay-later services, etc.
 Customers will be able to view the Driver&#39;s current location on a map, through GPS.
 Customers will be able to see the name of the driver and his ratings, and they can call him if
the ride is confirmed.
 Customers will be able to cancel a ride within a certain time frame, without any penalty.
 Customers will be able to view the list of previous rides which were completed.
For Drivers:
 Drivers will be able to create an account on the website, with their name, email address,
phone number, and driving license number.
 Drivers will be able to manage their rides, routes, and payment through their driver&#39;s
account.
 Drivers will able to see the name of the Customer &amp; he can call him if the ride is confirmed.
 Drivers will be able to cancel a ride within a certain time frame, without any penalty, based
on their availability and location.
 Drivers will be able to withdraw their balance directly to the bank account.
 Drivers will be able to view the customer&#39;s pickup and drop location on a map, through GPS.
For Administrators:
 An Administrator will be able to delete an existing account.
 An Administrator will be able to view the profile of each account.
 An Administrators will be able to view reports, ride requests, payments, and other
parameters.

 An Administrator will be able to ban an account if he found any suspicious activity.

Non-Functional Requirements:

Website &amp; Security:
 The website should have a user-friendly interface that is easy to perform and understand.
 The website should be secure and protect user data from unauthorized access.
 Only registered customers will be able to request for a ride.
 Each stakeholder will be to access system through authentication process.
 Monitor the website for suspicious activity, such as multiple failed logins attempts or
unusual payment transactions.
Fare:
 The fare should be calculated based on the distance travelled and the time taken to reach
the destination.
Reliability:
 The system and the support team should be reliable and available 24/7.
 The system should handle user requests by managing load balancing.
Maintainability:
 The system should be easy to maintain and upgrade.
 Separate environment will be maintained for system for isolation in production, testing, and
development.
Portability:
 The system should be easily portable to different platforms and devices.
 System will provide portable User Interface (HTML, CSS, JS) through users will be able to
 access online cab booking portal.

Accessibility:
 Only registered customer will be able to book a cab after authentication.
 The system should comply with accessibility standards team will be able to view daily,
weekly, monthly, annual business Growth through customised dashboard.
Durability:
 The system should be durable and resistant to crashes.
 The system should be able to recover from crashes quickly.
Efficiency:
 On peak hours users will be able to book cab with same response time.

Modularity:
 System should be designed and developed using reusable, independent or dependent
business scenarios in the form of modules.
 These modules will be loosely coupled and highly cohesive.
Scalability:
 System will be able to provide consistent user experience to stake holder as
well as visitors irrespective of load.
